# Parkinson-s-disease-prediction
Parkinson's disease is a progressive disorder that affects the nervous system and the parts of the body controlled by the nerves. Symptoms start slowly. The first symptom may be a barely noticeable tremor in just one hand. Tremors are common, but the disorder may also cause stiffness or slowing of movement. Parkinson Disease is a brain neurological disorder. It leads to shaking of the body, hands and provides stiffness to the body. No proper cure or treatment is available yet at the advanced stage. Treatment is possible only when done at the early or onset of the disease. These will not only reduce the cost of the disease but will also possibly save a life. Most methods available can detect Parkinson in an advanced stage; which means loss of approx.. 60% dopamine in basal ganglia and is responsible for controlling the movement of the body with a small amount of dopamine. More than 145,000 people have been found alone suffering in the U.K and in India, almost one million population suffers from this disease and it’s spreading fast in the entire world.

In this study, we will analyze the patients’ data who are diagnosed with the disease. Using speech data from subjects is expected to help the development of a noninvasive diagnostic. People with Parkinsonism (PWP) suffer from speech impairments like dysphonia (defective use of the voice), hypophonia (reduced volume), monotone (reduced pitch range), and dysarthria (difficulty with articulation of sounds or syllables). Therefore, our analysis in this project will be based on voice parameters of the affected.
